Note that the terms we're calculating for the objective function will be in dollar units.
So the expected portfolio return defined
as the dot product of the alpha vector with the holding vector,
will be in dollar units.
The vector of portfolio holdings will be in dollar units.
So now, let's think about the vector of alpha factor exposures.
To keep the whole expression of portfolio return in dollar units,
the factor exposures will be in units of percent change.
The question is, how much?
Barra usually scales the factor exposures
so that they are between negative five and positive five.
Centered around zero and transform it to make it more of a normal distribution.
Based on the size of the exposure values,
we will make an assumption that a factor exposure of
one unit maps to one basis point of daily return on that stock.
Note that, a basis point is one percent of one percent or,
one divided by 10,000, which is 0.0001.
To see why this assumption is reasonable,
let's use these assumed daily returns of one basis point per day and analyze them.
Over 252 trading days,
the annualized return is about 2.55 percent.
Similarly, a stock with daily return of negative one bases point per
day would have an annualized return of negative 2.49 percent.
This means that the spread between
the positive return stock and negative returns stock would be about five percent.
So the spread between a stock with
a positive one factor exposure and a stock with a negative one factor exposure,
would have an annualized return difference of about five percent.
This is a reasonable order of magnitude.
To see why this is a decent assumption,
we can compare it to a different assumption that does not lead to a reasonable spread.
For instance, let's see what happens if we assume that one unit of
factor exposure leads to ten basis points of daily return.
For a stock with plus ten basis points of daily return,
this is an annualized return of 28.6 percent.
For a stock with a negative ten basis points of daily return,
this is an annualized return of negative 22.3 percent.
So the spread between these two stocks would be 51 percent,
which is too large to be in the right order of magnitude.
For our back-test, we can make an assumption that one unit of
factor exposure translates to about one basis point in daily returns.
In other words, the estimated daily return is one basis point times the factor exposure,
where one basis point is 0.0001 or ten raised to the negative four.
Note that if we want it to be more precise,
we could estimate a linear relationship between
the factor exposures and the daily return on a stock.
But for now, we'll make this assumption and
multiply one basis point to the alpha vector of
factor exposures so that the expected portfolio return expression is in dollar units.